## Citizenship: Concept 
The concept of citizenship is composed of three main elements or dimensions. The first is citizenship as legal status, defined by civil, political and social rights. Here, the citizen is the legal person free to act according to the law and having the right to claim the law’s protection. The second considers citizens specifically as political agents, actively participating in a society’s political institutions. The third refers to citizenship as membership in a political community that furnishes a distinct source of identity. 
## Meaning of Citizenship 
Citizenship is a relationship between an individual and a state to which the individual owes allegiance and in turn is entitled to its protection. Citizenship implies the status of freedom with accompanying responsibilities. Citizens have certain rights, duties, and responsibilities that are denied or only partially extended to aliens and other noncitizens residing in a country. In general, full political rights, including the right to vote and to hold public office, are predicated upon citizenship. The usual responsibilities of citizenship are allegiance, taxation, and military service. 
## Constitutional provisions for Citizenship
**PART II** 
**ARTICLES** 
##### Article 5: Citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution.
##### Article 6: Rights of citizenship of certain personswho have migrated to India from Pakistan. 
##### Article 7: Rights of citizenship of certain migrants to Pakistan. 
##### Article 8: Rights of citizenship of certain persons of Indian origin (PIO) residing outside India. 
##### Article 9: Persons voluntarily acquiring citizenshipof a foreign State not to be citizens. 
##### Article 10: Continuance of the rights of citizenship. 
##### Article 11: Parliament to regulate the right ofcitizenship by law. 

## Article 5: Citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution. 
At the commencement of this Constitution, every person who has his domicile in the territory of India and—
a. who was born in the territory of India; or 
b. either of whose parents was born in the territory of India; or
c. Who has been ordinarily resident in the territory of India for not less than five years immediately preceding such commencement, shall be a citizen of India.

#### Power of Parliament to regulate the Rights of Citizenship by Law (Article 11)
- The Parliament has the right to make any provision with regard to the acquisition and termination of citizenship and any other matter relating to citizenship.
- Parliament, in exercise of the power given to it under Article 11 of the Constitution has passed the Indian Citizenship Act, 1955. This Act provides for the acquisition and termination of Citizenship in India. The Indian legislation has enacted the Citizenship (Amendment) Acts of 1986, 1992, 2003, 2005, 2015 and 2019. Hence provisions made in the Citizenship Act of 1955 must be read together with Part II of the Constitution in order to get a comprehensive picture of the Law of Citizenship.
#### Acquisition of Indian Citizenship 
Parliament, in exercise of the power given to it under Article 11 of the Constitution, has passed the Citizenship Act, 1955, making provisions for the acquisition and termination of citizenship after the commencement of the Constitution. The Act provides for the acquisition of India citizenship after the commencement of the Constitution in five ways, i.e., birth, descent, registration, naturalization and incorporation of territory.
### By birth:
1. A person born in India on or after 26th January 1950 but before 1st July, 1987 is citizen of India by birth irrespective of the nationality of his parents. (Jus Soli).
2. 2. A person born in India on or after 1st July, 1987 but before 3rd December, 2004 is considered citizen of India by birth if either of his parents is a citizen of India at the time of his birth.
3. A person born in India on or after 3rd December, 2004 is considered citizen of India by birth if both the parents are citizens of India or one of the parents is a citizen of India and the other is not an illegal migrant at the time of his birth.
	- An "illegal migrant" as defined in section 2(1) (b) of the Act is a foreigner who entered India:
		- Without a valid passport or prescribed travel documents: or
		- With a valid passport or other prescribed travel documents but remains in India beyond the permitted period of time.
### By descent:
- Broadly, a person born outside India on or after January 26, 1950, is a citizen of India by descent if his/her either of the parents is a citizen of India at the time of that person's birth i.e. law of blood (Jus Sanguine).
- A person born outside India on or after 3rd December, 2004 shall not be a citizen of India, unless the parents declare that the minor does not hold passport of another country and his birth is registered at an Indian consulate within one year of the date of birth or with the permission of the Central Government, after the expiry of the said period.
#### Citizenship of persons covered by the Assam Accord (1985):
As per this accord -
- All those foreigners who had entered Assam between 1951 and 1961 were to be given full citizenship including the right to vote.
- Those migrants those who had done so after 1971 were to be deported.
- Those who entered between 1961 and 1971 were to be denied voting rights for ten years but would enjoy all other rights of citizenship.
### By registration:
Citizenship can also be acquired by registration with
fulfil some condition,which is given below:
other
- A person of Indian origin who has been a resident of India for 7 years before applying for registration.
- A person of Indian origin who is a resident of any country outside undivided India.
- A person who is married to an Indian citizen and is ordinarily resident for 7 years before applying for registration.
- Minor children of persons who are citizens of India.
### By naturalization:
Citizenship of India by naturalization can be acquired
by a foreigner (not illegal migrant) who is ordinarily
resident in India for twelve years (throughout the period
of twelve months immediately preceding the date of
application and for eleven years in the aggregate in the
fourteen years preceding the twelve months) and other
qualifications as specified in Third Schedule to the Act.
### By incorporation of territories: 
If any new territory becomes a part of India, after a popular verdict,
the Government of India shall specify the person of that territory to be the citizen of India.
- In India, there is single citizenship i.e., citizenship of India.
- A citizen is an individual who enjoys all the rights given by the law, available in the country.
- Art. 11 says that the Parliament will regulate the right of citizenship by the Law.
### Termination of Indian Citizenship
The Citizenship Act, 1955, also lays down how the
citizenship of India may be lost whether it was acquired
under the Citizenship Act. 1955, or prior to it, under the
provisions of the Constitution. It may happen in any of
the three ways: (a) renunciation, or (b) termination, and
(c) deprivation.
##### Renunciation: 
It is a voluntary act by which a after acquiring the citizenship of another person, country, gives up his Indian citizenship. This provision is subject to certain conditions.
##### Termination: 
It takes place by operation of /when an Indian citizen voluntarily acquires the citizenship of another country. He automatically ceases to be an Indian citizen.
##### Deprivation: 
Deprivation is a compulsory termination of citizenship of India. A citizen of India by naturalization, or registration, may be deprived of his citizenship by an order of the Central Government if it is satisfied that:
- The citizen has obtained the citizenship by means of fraud, false representation or concealment of any material fact;
- The citizen has shown disloyalty to the Constitution of India;
- The citizen has unlawfully traded or communicated with the enemy during a war;
- The citizen has, within five years after registration or neutralization, been imprisoned in any country for two years;
- The citizen has been ordinarily resident out of India for seven years continuously.
### Rights not available to Aliens
1. Right not to be discriminated against on grounds of race, caste, religion, sex or place of birth (Art 15)
2. Right to equality of opportunity in public employment (Art 16)
3. Right to six fundamental freedoms under Art 19
4. Right to vote
5. Cultural and educational rights conferred by Arts 29 & 30
6. Rights to hold certain offices—President, Vice-President, Governor of States, Judges of Supreme Court or High Courts, Attorney General of India, Comptroller and Auditor General, etc.
7. Right to contest election and get elected to either House at the Centre or State.
### Dual Citizenship
- The Indian Constitution, under Article 11, gives power to the Indian Parliament to legislate on citizenship matters. Accordingly, Parliament enacted the Citizenship Act in 1955. Article 9 says that citizenship means full citizenship. The Constitution does not recognize divided allegiance. Section 10 of the Citizenship Act says that a person cannot have allegiance to the Indian Constitution as well as to the Constitution of another country. The Indian Courts have consistently ruled against dual citizenship.
- If an Indian citizen acquires citizenship of another country, he loses the Indian citizenship. For example, if a child of parents, who are citizens of India, is born in another country and does not renounce the citizenship of that country on attainment of adulthood, he/she loses the Indian citizenship.
- The reason for the denial of dual citizenship is that citizenship entails certain duties like serving in the army, if the need be.

### One Citizenship in India
Our Constitution, though federal, provides for one citizenship only, namely, the citizenship of India. There is no separate citizenship for States. In some federal countries like the USA and Switzerland, there is dual citizenship, namely federal/national citizenship and citizenship of the State where a person is born or permanently resides, and there are distinct rights and obligations flowing from the two kinds of citizenship. In India, however, the civic and political rights which are conferred by the Constitution upon the citizens of India can be equally claimed by any citizen of India irrespective of his birth and residence in any part of India.
Permanent residence within a State may, however, confer certain advantages in two situations: 
- Although in cases of employment under the Union, there shall be no qualification for residence within a particular territory, Union Parliament, under Article 16(3) of the Constitution, is empowered to lay down such qualification with regard to any particular class or classes of employment under a State or a Union Territory: this is done basically for the sake of efficiency, insofar as it depends on familiarity with local conditions.
- Moreover, it is the Union Parliament which is the sole authority to legislate in this matter and that State Legislature shall have no voice. 
As Article 15(1), which prohibits discrimination on grounds only of race, religion, caste, sex or place of birth, does not mention 'residence', it is, therefore, constitutionally permissible for a State to confer special benefits upon its residents in natters other than those in respect of which rights are conferred by the Constitution upon all citizens of India. In Joshi vs. State of Bombay (1955), Supreme Court has held that since discrimination on grounds of residence is not prohibited by Article 15, it is permissible for a State to offer a concession to its residents in the matter of fees for admission in its State Medical Colleges 
### NRI
An NRI is an Indian citizen who does not reside within India for more than 120 days a year. Till the end of FY 2019-20 (i.e. financial year ended March 31, 2020), NRIs (covers Indian citizens and Persons of Indian Origin) included those individuals who being outside India visited India for less than 182 days in a financial year. The Finance Act 2020 reduced this period to 120 days in cases where the total taxable Indian income (i.e., income accruing in India) of such visiting individuals during the financial year is more than Rs 15 lakh. An Indian Citizen who stays abroad for employment/ carrying on business or vocation outside India or stays abroad under circumstances indicating an intention for an uncertain duration of stay abroad is a non-resident. (Persons posted in U.N. Organizations and Officials deputed abroad by Central/State Governments and Public Sector undertakings on temporary assignments are also treated as non-residents). Non - Resident foreign citizens of Indian Origin are treated on par with non-resident Indian Citizens (NRIs) for the purpose of certain facilities.
##### Main categories of NRIs
The following are the main three categories of NRIs: -
1. Indian citizens who stay abroad for employment or for carrying on a business or Vocation or any other purpose in circumstances indicating an indefinite period of stay abroad.
2. Indian citizens working abroad on assignment with foreign government agencie like United Nations Organization (UNO), including its affiliates, International Monetary Fund (IMF), World Bank etc.
3. Officials of Central and State Government and Public Sector undertaking deputed abroad on temporary assignments or posted to their offices, including Indian diplomat missions, abroad.
##### Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI)
- The Prime Minister of India in the Pravasi Bhartiya Divas, 2005 made a statement to extend the facility of Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) to Persons of Indian origin (PIOs).
- In order to implement the PM's statement, Citizenship (Amendment) Ordinance, 2005 waspromulgated on 28th June 2005, which later became an Amendment Act. This Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2005 amends the Citizenship Act, 1955 by deleting Fourth Schedule of the Citizenship Act, 1955.
- The Constitution of India does not allow holding Indian citizenship and citizenship of a foreign country simultaneously. Based on the recommendation of the High-Level committee on Indian Diaspora, the Government of India decided to grant Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) commonly known as 'Dual Citizenship'.
- A foreign national, who was eligible to become citizen of India on 26.01.1950 or was a citizen of India on or at any time after 26.01.1950 or belonged to a territory that became part of India after 15.08.1947 and his/her children and grandchildren, provided his/her country of citizenship allows dual citizenship in some form or other under the local laws, is eligible for registration as Overseas Citizen of India (OCI). Minor children of such person are also eligible for OCI.
- However, if the applicant had ever been a citizen of Pakistan or Bangladesh, he/she will not be eligible for OCI.
- Persons registered as OCI have not been given any voting rights, election to Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha/Legislative Assembly/Council, holding Constitutional posts such as President, Vice President, and Judge of Supreme Court/High Court etc.
- Registered OCIs shall be entitled to following benefits:
	1. A person registered as OCI is eligible to apply for grant of Indian citizenship under section 5(1) (g) of the Citizenship Act, 1955 if he/she is registered as OCI for five years and has been residing in India for one year out of the five years before making the application.
	2.  The fee for application for registration as OCI is US $ 275 or equivalent in local currency for each applicant.
	3. As per the provisions of section 5(1) (g) of the Citizenship Act, 1955, a person who is registered as OCI for 5 years and is residing in India for 1 year out of the above 5 years, is eligible to apply for Indian Citizenship.
##### PIO and OCI merger:
- The PIO and OCI schemes were merged to maximize 33 benefits and reduce immigration procedures for non-resident Indians (NRIs) visiting India. The PIO card was valid for travel, work, and residence in India for a period of 15 years.
- The OCI card was implemented in 2005, carried more expansive benefits than the PIO card, and was valid for the holder’s lifetime.As a result of the merger, former Indian citizens receive benefits from both PIO and OCI card schemes.
- Current PIO cardholders now receive greater work, residence, and political benefits andare no longer required to undergo registration protocols through Foreigner Regional Registration Offices (FRROs). 
## Citizenship Amendment Act 2019
#### What is Citizenship Amendment Act or CAA?
The Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is introduced by the Central Government in the Parliament of India in 2019 to primarily amend the Citizenship Act of 1955. 
#### Purpose of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) 2019
- The main purpose of the act is to make certain religious communities of illegal migrants or refugees eligible for Indian citizenship - in a fast- track manner.
- The Act, among other things, seeks to grant citizenship to Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Parsis, Buddhists and Christians who migrated to India till the end of 2014 from countries like Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan, due to reasons like persecutions.
#### What makes the Citizenship Amendment Act Controversial?
- The Citizenship (Amendment) Act 2019, in effect, seeks to give Indian nationality only to the non-Muslim refugees from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan.
- Six religious’ communities- Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians- are considered eligible for Indian citizenship if they entered India on or before 31 December 2014, but not Muslims.
- The countries from which minorities are allowed include Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, but not Myanmar or Sri Lanka.
- Citizenship is granted by relaxing the requirement of residence in India for citizenship by naturalization from 11 years to 5 years for these migrants.
- North-east India has already suffered a lot due to the
problem of illegal migrants. The natives of North-
east India are against any move to allow citizenship
to illegal migrants - irrespective of their religion.
#### The stand of the Government regarding CAA
- The Central government is of the opinion that the act is not discriminatory against Muslims. As the Citizenship Amendment Act has not amended the original provisions, any foreigner, including a Muslim, can still apply for Indian citizenship under the normal process of naturalization. However, it may take 11 or more years to get Citizenship in this route.
- The strong advocate of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) 2019, Amit Shah, Home Minister of India, connected the 2-nation theory which led to the division of India with the new act. As per him, as the two nations - India and Pakistan - are created on the basis of religion, CAA turned a necessity now. also cited
- Home Minister the Nehru-Liaquat pact. As per him, Nehru-Liaquat pact failed to achieve its objectives in protecting minorities in Pakistan and Bangladesh. Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan have declared Islam as their State Religion. However, there are religious persecutions of minorities in these countries. Home Minister pointed out the declining minority population in the three neighbouring countries.
- The CAA legislation, as per the Union Government, will give bring a new light into the lives of the people who were facing religious persecution in neighbouring countries.
- As per the government, the act does not violate any provisions of the Constitution including Article 14. Three flaws in the logic of the Central Government
- Even though Jinnah proposed 2-nation theory in the 1940s, the result was never a Muslim Pakistan and a Hindu India. While one nation (Pakistan) was created on the basis of religion, the other nation was created on the basis of secular ideology (India).
 - Secular India, citizenship was granted to members of all regions including Islam.
- Only Pakistan and Bangladesh were part of Pre-Partition India, Afghanistan was not even if the government take moral responsibility to protect the minorities affected by the 2-nation theory, that logic is not applicable in the case of Afghanistan.
- If the intention of the CAA is to protect all minorities facing persecution in the neighbouring countries- the act turns a blind eye on the minorities in Myanmar (Rohingya Muslims) and Sri Lanka (Tamils).
- Thus clearly, the act is highly selective. CAA is intended to select some communities and omit others.
#### Exclusions from the applicability of CAA:
- It shall not apply to tribal areas of Assam, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Tripura (the sixth schedule of the Constitution). These tribal areas include Karbi Anglong (in Assam), Garo Hills (in Meghalaya), Chakma District (in Mizoram), and Tripura Tribal Areas District.
- Areas covered in the States of Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Nagaland that are protected by the Inner Line Permit (ILP) (notified under the Bengal Eastern Frontier Regulation, 1873.) have also been excluded.
#### State by State Report:
- Assam: The state has three Autonomous District Councils, two of which are geographically contiguous. While these are protected, CAA will be in effect in a larger area.
- Meghalaya: This state too has three ADCs. Unlike in Assam, the ADCs in Meghalaya cover almost the entire state. Only a small part of Shillong is not covered. CAA will be effective in that part of Shillong while the rest of the state is protected.
- Tripura: One ADC covers around 70% of the state's area. However, the remaining 30% holds about two-thirds of the population. CAA is effective in the smaller, more densely populated regions.
- Arunachal Pradesh: Entire state covered under ILP regime, protected from CAA.
- Nagaland: Entire state covered under ILP regime, protected from CAA. So far, only Dimapur used to be outside the regime. Now, Inner Line Permit (ILP) has been extended to Dimapur, too, so the whole state is now exempt.
- Mizoram: Entire state covered under ILP regime, protected from CAA. Additionally, the state has three ADCs that are also protected under the Sixth Schedule.
- Manipur: Entire state gets new ILP protection. The state was not protected under either option, but following the introduction of CAA in Parliament, the government has introduced ILP in Manipur too. 
#### Concerns of the North East Region of India
- Northeast people are immensely worried about the possible demographic changes the Citizenship (Amendment) Act could cause in the region. The north east region has long battled migration from Bangladesh.
 The natives of North-east are fiercely opposed to any 'outsider' settling in. Protests have already broken out over the fears that the Citizenship (Amendment) Act could end up destroying the culture and ethnicity of the region.
#### Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) and CAA
- The Act also proposes to incorporate a sub-section (d) to Section 7, providing for cancellation of Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) registration where the OCI card-holder has violated any provision of the Citizenship Act or any other law in force.
#### Conclusion
- The chief opposition to the Citizenship (Amendment) Act is that it discriminates on the basis of religion by identifying only non-Muslims refugees as those who would be eligible for Indian citizenship.
- While any foreigner can still apply for Indian citizenship, he/she has to follow the normal process of naturalization - which takes 11 or more years.
- The CAA is seen by many as a quick move to change the demographics and voters-profile in favour of the ruling party by selective admission of illegal migrants.
- As per the critics, Citizenship (Amendment) act violates Article 14 of the Indian Constitution - the fundamental right which guarantees equality to all persons. This is part of the basic structure of Constitution and hence cannot be reshaped by any Parliament laws.
- It is yet to be seen if the Supreme Court allows the selective fast- tracking for Indian Citizenship. The apex court has power even to declare the bill as unconstitutional.
- The policy towards illegal migrants and refugees needs wider debates and deliberation. However, religion can never be the basis of Indian Citizenship.
#### National Register for Citizens (NRC)
- NRC is a verified digital register having names and basic demographic information about all Indian citizens in a digital format.
- The names of all persons born in India or having Indian parentage or having resided in India for at least 11 years, will be mentioned as Indian Citizens in the National Register for Citizens
#### Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) vs National Register for Citizens (NRC)
- CAA is applicable for illegal migrants residing in India and that not apply to any Indian citizen. NRC consists of a record of citizens of India only excluding others.
- NRC is not based on religion, while CAA is.
- The base-year of NRC is 1971 (in the case of Assam), while the base-year of CAA is 2014. 
#### Benefit of NRC being implemented at national level:
1. Ensure People's Right: A national NRC will clear actual number of illegal migrants in Assam. It will prevent further illegal migration that will ensure rights of Indian citizens in a better way.
2. Better policy measures and implementation: It will provide a verified database to implement targeted policies and calibrated policy measures for benefits of Indian citizen’s especially tribal people. This will weed out fake beneficiaries.
3. Enhance internal security: It will enhance internal security of the nation by keeping a check on illegal migration. Illegal migration led to terrorist threat, counterfeit money etc. endangering security of our nation.
4. Prevent future illegal migration: Publication of an NRC at national level would deter future migrants illegally. The publication of the draft NRC has already created a perception that staying in Assam without valid documentation will attract detention/ jail term and deportation.
5. Will reduce fake voting: Illegal migrants will find it difficult to procure Indian identity documents. Thus, cases of vote for money through fake identities will reduce as persons whose names are not in list will lose voting rights. Thus, it will strengthen our electoral process.
#### Issues related to National Register of Citizens being implemented at national level:
1. Law and order problem: the implementation of NRC may lead to serious law and order problem in India and also in neighbouring states.
2. Loss of Right to Vote: Right to vote is a constitutional right. People excluded from NRC would be barred from voting. Thus, loosing right to vote.
3. Fake Cases: There have been several cases of people having made fake official identity cards such as Aadhaar, PAN card, ration card and even voter's identity card. This will legalise their illegal migration.
4. Loss of Properties: The left out whose names are not in the list will not be able to buy land or a house in the country. It will increase selling of benami properties especially by those who lose their citizenship.
5. Judicial burden will increase: Since such 'non citizens' will go to judiciary for relief to substantiate their citizenship claim. Thus, it will lead to overburdening of judiciary which is already overburdened.
NRC exercise makes sense in Assam because in 1971
around 10 million people crossed over from Bangladesh
to India and that caught the attention of authorities.
However, there is no need to get into this kind of
exercise at national level, as it can lead to unintended
consequences.
#### National Population Register (NPR)
The National Population Register (NPR) is a comprehensive identity database maintained by the Registrar General and Census Commissioner of India under Ministry of Home Affairs.
- It is a Register of "usual residents of the country" and will be prepared at the local, sub-district, district, state and national level.
 - The NPR is being prepared under provisions of the Citizenship Act 1955 and the Citizenship(Registration of Citizens and issue of National Identity Cards) Rules, 2003. It is mandatory for every "usual resident of India" to register in the NPR.
- As per section 14A of Citizenship Act 1955, it is compulsory for every citizen of the country to register in the National Register of Indian Citizens (NRIC). The creation of NPR is the first step towards preparations of NRIC.
- According to the Ministry of Home Affairs, "usual resident of the country" is one who has been residing in a local area for at least the last 6 months or intends to stay in a particular location for the next six months. 
##### Citizens & Foreigners: 
Unlike the NRC, the National Population Register will not only include citizens but also foreigners as it would record even a foreigner staying in a locality for more than six months. The NPR database would contain demographic as well as biometric details. 
##### Seeding with Aadhaar:
The government also plans to seed Aadhaar database with the updated NPR. This updated NPR database along with Aadhaar Number will become the mother database and can be used by various government departments for selection of beneficiaries under their respective schemes.
#### Backdrop to NPR
- The data for the NPR were first collected in 2010 along with the house listing phase of Census 2011. In 2015, this data was further updated by conducting a door-to-door survey. Earlier, the roll out of NPR had slowed down due to overlapping with that of Aadhaar.
- NPR will again be conducted in conjunction with the house listing phase from 1st April 2020 till 30th September 2020 - the first phase of the Census 2021 - by the Office of the Registrar General of India (RGI) under the Home Ministry for Census 2021. Only Assam will not be included, given the recently completed NRC.
#### Objectives & Benefits of the massive exercise of NPR 
- The objective of the NPR is to create a comprehensive identity database of every usual resident in the country and to help in better utilization and implementation of the benefits and services under the government schemes, improve planning and security in the country. The database would contain demographic as well as biometric particulars.
- It will provide solution to multifarious problems facing the country that range from effective maintenance of law and order to efficient implantation of welfare schemes like MGNREGS, food security and nutrition campaigns etc.
- Updating of NPR will help in tracking criminal activities, and better planning and execution of government schemes. The NPR links biometric and demographic details of any ordinary resident, thus making it a comprehensive database of residents.
#### Connection between NPR & Aadhaar 
- Data collected in NPR will be sent to Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) for deduplication and issue of Aadhaar number. m 
	- So, the NPR will contain three elements of data: 
		1. Demographic Data, 
		2. Biometric Data, & 
		3. Aadhaar - UID Number
- A person who has register under Aadhaar still has to register under NPR. In NPR, certain processes like the collection of data at the doorstep of the individual by authorized persons, collection of biometrics after following a certain process, authentication through social audit, verification by authorities etc is mandatory.