Make a auto cmd for Server
1. `/SSC-study-help`
	- this will give a prompt to some faq-answers
	1. Can someone crack this exam on first try, in limited time after filling form.
	2. What is the syllabus of SSC / RRB / BANK / or other 
		1. SSC syllabus 
		2. Bank syllabus 
		3. Other exam
		4. over all answers. If u wanna give all 
	3. What is the best teachers for this
		1. GK 
			1. Core-subject 
			2. CA
			3. Static gk
		2. ENGLISH 
			1. Grammer 
			2. Vocab
		3. MATH
		4. REASONING 
	4. Where can I practice/ or see Compition 		
		-  answer for this question 
		1. Testbook
		2. Oliveboard
2. `/server-help`
	1. Can u guide me, I m new?
		- give answer & to use /SSC-study-help
	2. How to use server 
		- use given FAQ-answer to know
		1. Post Ur Mock score in # Mock score
		2. Post Ur past/current Govt. Score card in # CGL-score card
		3. Intro in # introduction 
		4. How to use VC 
		5. How to use to-do-list
		6. How to use padhai stats 
		7. How to invite someone 
		8. How to use Chat-gpt
		9. How to listen to music
		10. How to Suggest something 
		11. How to add in a private room
	3. 

#### ARCHAEOLOGY
The science, on the basis of which the old mounds are duly excavated in successive levels and information about the physical life of the people of ancient times are obtained, is called 'Archeology'.The Department of Archaeological Survey of India was established in 1861 by Alexander Cunningham, who is called the father of Indian archeology. He was the first Director-General of the Archaeological Survey of India. Sir John Marshall was its director-general from 1902 to 1928. During his time, the first site of Indus civilization Harappa was discovered by Dayaram Sahni in 1921.

#### STONE TOOLS
- Pebbles: Those pieces of stone whose edges get smooth and flat due to the flowing water. They were used as hammers 
- Flakes: Small pieces taken out of the stone (core).
- Chopper: An Early Stone Age tool made with pebbles by flaking a part of the periphery on the upper face. Used for cutting or scraping;
- Handaxes: Almond or pear-shaped tool made by removing flakes usually from both upper and lower faces. Mostly found in Early Stone Age context.
- Harpoon: Missile of bone, antler or metal, comprising a barbed, pointed head and a barbed shaft. Used for capturing under-water mammals and fish.
- Cleaver: An Early Stone Age tool having a wide chisel-edge formed by the intersection of two large flake-scars.
- Scraper: Implement of stone, bone or metal having a specially prepared scraping-edge. Used for scraping hides, smoothening wood, etc.
- Burin: Tool usually made with a stone blade by flaking its sides at one end, so that it forms a narrow chisel-edge at the meeting point. Used for engraving.
- Borer: a device with a thick tip.
- Core system: Under this, a stone block was peeled and given the shape of the desired weapon or tool.